DDI 408 [Contextual Doc] GTM Guide (#583)
Amplitude-Developer-Docs/amplitude-dev-center: docs/data/sources/google-tag-manager-client.md

---

> title: Amplitude Analytics Browser SDK

Author: The same as above. Added a `Google Tag Manager Template -  prefix` to ensure it can be searched.

> description: Official Google Tag Manager template for Amplitude Analytics for data collection.

Reviewer: Please be more clear about which template this is for in the description to help disambiguate search results and create clear social previews.

Author: Added the name of the template and changes are as following:

```
Collect data with ease using Amplitude Analytics Browser SDK GTM template - the official client-side Google Tag Manager template for seamless data collection.
```

---

> Client-side Google Tag Manager Template for Amplitude Analytics. The tag utilizes the [Amplitude Marketing Analytics SDK](../../data/sdks/marketing-analytics-browser/) for data collection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the client-side Google Tag Manager Template for Amplitude Analytics. The tag uses the [Amplitude Marketing Analytics SDK](../../data/sdks/marketing-analytics-browser/) for data collection.
```

Author: Added "This is" and replaced "utilize" to "use" for all pages.

!!!info Resources
    [:simple-googletagmanager: GTM Template Gallery](https://tagmanager.google.com/gallery/#/owners/amplitude/templates/amplitude-browser-sdk-gtm-template) · [:material-github: GitHub](https://github.com/amplitude/amplitude-browser-sdk-gtm-template)

> ## Tutorial video

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This video tutorial walks through the implementation basics. 
```

---
title: Google Tag Manager Template - Amplitude Analytics Browser SDK
description: Collect data with ease using Amplitude Analytics Browser SDK GTM template - the official client-side Google Tag Manager template for seamless data collection.
---

This is the client-side Google Tag Manager Template for Amplitude Analytics. The tag uses the [Amplitude Marketing Analytics SDK](../../sdks/marketing-analytics-browser/) for data collection.

!!!info Resources
    [:simple-googletagmanager: GTM Template Gallery](https://tagmanager.google.com/gallery/#/owners/amplitude/templates/amplitude-browser-sdk-gtm-template) · [:material-github: GitHub](https://github.com/amplitude/amplitude-browser-sdk-gtm-template)

> With this template, you can defer the `init` tag until you receive a signal, like a consent grant. But make sure to fire the `init` tag before any other tags. The legacy template automatically calls init, so there's no need to do it yourself.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An `init` tag is required to enable tracking. It is common to set up the `init` tag to be triggered by "Page Load" event. However, you can defer the `init` tag until you receive a signal, like user consent. Tracking is held off until `init` tag is triggered.
```

Author: Casey's pro tip: It is recommended to avoid using passive voice cause passive voice can obscure the agent of the action. 

Will add "It is common to set up the `init` tag to be triggered by "Page Load" event."
